---
title: Glossary
description: 
published: true
date: 2021-12-17T15:10:38.868Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2021-12-13T22:57:42.511Z
---

\# A - \_Academia\_ - named by Academus son, legend says that’s where Academus is buried. became an Order for the nation, a staple for education due to its location and availability. - \_Academus\_ \\- a farmer, of little importance except the land he left behind after his death - \_Academus’ son\_ - though his name is lost to time, he named and built Academia. - \_Aeonization\_ - the process by which an opening is created between the plane of interest, the one being cast on, and the aetherial matrix that usually requires an aeonized object or spell book with four point casting. - (School) \_Aeonization\_ - A school of magic at UMAD, utilized to undo links within programming and safely disperse aether - \_Aether\_ - the material that fills the region of the universe beyond the terrestrial sphere - \_Aetherial Studies\_ - Department at UMAD dedicated to the research and study of movement of aether that exists as the matrix for which all planes exist within. Also study spellcraft and the theory behind it - \_(Department) Alchemy\_ - Department at UMAD dedicated to alchemical research. - \_Alchemy\_ -  the medieval forerunner of chemistry, based on the supposed transformation of matter. - \_Aposematism\_ - advertising by an animal to potential predators that it is not worth attacking or eating - \_ART\_ \\- Accelerated Research(er) Track - \_Azalt\_ - An older civilization that collapsed # B - \_Belthidian laws\_ - natural laws of all things and within all space.  These are the rules that the universe abides by. # C - \_Castra Fidei\_ - places created to train artisans for hire & house newly acquired resources for the temples under the protection of their own private forces - \_Chill\_ - an undead. Also used to tell someone to go die. - \_Cultural Studies\_ - Department of UMAD dedicated to the study of history, communications, religion, economics, politics, and many others # D - \_Degrees\_ - classification of spells based on minimum aether and rate of programming - \_Demons\_ - can choose which deals to fulfill, not Devils - \_Devils\_ - must fulfill the deals they make. Devils consider themselves superior to demons, and are offended if misidentified. - \_(School) Dismissal\_ - a school of magic at UMAD that specializes in the movement of material to its naturalized plane over a distance. - \_Divine Servant\_ - those who serve a specific god, both in faith and by performing duties. # E - \_Efferent\_ \\- a person who studies magic from books, requiring a four-point or aeonized object. - \_(Human) Endomorph\_ - a person with a soft round build of body and a high proportion of fat tissue. - \_Engineering\_ - Department of UMAD dedicated to military research and civil developments during reconstruction, as well as studying Belthidian Laws, their effects on material , and the utilization of these ideas to design and improve machines of function or processes. - \_Eternal\_ - lasting or existing forever; without end or beginning. - \_EXT-111\_ - another plane, simulated via Minecraft Server - \_EXT-918\_ - “our” plane of existence # F - \_Foci\_ - workhorse of a ritual and high risk position; those who are doing the most, but are also going to be the place where things go wrong if the ritual is interrupted or a mistake is made. - \_Four point\_ - a spellbook containing distinct instructions for the programming of spells. The four corners are covered in an ornate blue metal that easily holds and releases the aether, acting as a superconductor. # G # H - \_(School) Healing\_ - A school of magic at UMAD, specializing in utilizing the biological systems' own machinery and resources to rapidly move, act, or stimulate for a desired result # I - \_(School) Illusion\_ - a school of magic at UMAD, specializing the manipulation of transverse and longitudinal waves of material to create visual or auditory sensations and do not directly affect biological systems - \_Innate\_ - a caster who has a direct connection to aether > "It's not entirely clear how they do it but the mechanism is studied. We have A,D, and G but we are trying to figure out B,C,E, and F if you understand what I mean." - Elham # J # K - \_Knuckles\_: dice made from sheep's knuckles, with symbols drawn or carved on them. Used for divination # L - \_Lich\_ - intelligent undead with an aptitude for the aetherial # M - \_M-1.1\_ - full planar designation within UMAD - \_Materialfolk\_ - general term for all sapient species (Rau, Val, Human, Orc, etc) - \_Monasteries\_ - where a community of those who practice the same religion reside, providing education and lifestyle. - \_Morphology\_ - the study of the size, shape, and structure of animals, plants, and microorganisms and of the relationships of their constituent parts. The term refers to the general aspects of biological form and arrangement of the parts of a plant or an animal. # N - \_Necromancy\_ - Department at UMAD dedicated to the advanced study of Aetherial programming. # O - \_Order\_ - a religious organization that provides education and a lifestyle outside of monasteries. - \_(Kingdom of) Othello\_ - previously known as Eastern Kingdom # P - \_Perpetuity\_ - "afterlife", one of any forms of final placement. - \_Planar Overlay\_ - a clear opening exists between two realities, or any overlap between two or more planes - \_Planar Studies\_ - Department at UMAD dedicated to the study of Belthidian Laws and how their interactions with material differ within five-dimensional loci and the interaction between other planes in relative space - \_Planes\_ - dimensions of reality - \_PM-1\_ - Planar Designation of UMAD - \_Poetik Unbekannt\_ - collection of poems with unknown authors - \_Programming\_ - is the process of converting aether into something else. - \_(School) Programming\_ - a school of magic at UMAD that specializes in the creation of Aetherial frames to overlap material for manipulation of the material or creation of a constant summation and programming at a designated location # Q # R - \_Red-Rover\_ - An old children's game.  It refers back to a conflict between the Azalt and the Northern Giant people. - \_Rings\_ - concentric circles radiating out from the center of reality - 1st Ring is defined as where the plane that the living are familiar with is located - 8th Ring - Center of all things - “a point where time advances infinitely in an infinitesimal moment.  An eternity there would be a moment of fraction thereof anywhere else.  This suggests the central point is out of time.” - \_Ritual\_ - an advanced form of casting requiring multiple participants in an odd arrangement and incorporating a designated foci. # S - \_Spell Ink\_ - ink but with granules of diamond-dust, used to write spells in the Four-Point - \_Subterran\_ - English language - \_Summation\_ - the manipulation of wave patterns within the Aetherial matrix to move aether to the opening in the plane from aeonization and helps regulate the rate of flow of aether. - \_(School) Summoning\_ - A school of magic at UMAD that specializes in the displacement of material from one plane to another by means of netting. Specification of the material or naturalized plane yields greater complexity to casting and often requires greater rate and quantity of aether.  Summoning from more distant planes also requires a greater expense of aether. \\\[will adjust soon\\\] - \_(School) Synthesis\_ - A school of magic at UMAD that specializes in making one material from another using casting and an advanced knowledge of Belthidian Laws. # T - \_Temple\_ \\- a building devoted to the worship, or regarded as the dwelling place, of a god or gods or other objects of religious reverence. - \_Tethered Object\_ - concept; links to a small plane and overlay is forced in space.  This small plane exists between a ring 1 and 0 to create hastened reality for the object but within an overlayed material and micro plane. - \_(School) Thermokinetics\_ - A school of magic at UMAD specializing in the manipulation of material, the readiness to transfer thermal energy, and the movement of thermal energy - \_Tor\_ - an inventor and polymath. - \_Toristic process\_ - named after Tor. A logical and empirical means of study, similar to the scientific method. - \_(School) Translocation\_ - a school of magic at UMAD specializing in the displacement but not movement of material from one point in space to another within the same plane # U - \_Unlettered\_ - illiterate # V # W - (Aetherial) \_Weak Area\_ - a thin point between the plane you are on and the aetherial matrix # X # Y # Z # Units of Measurement ## Time \*\*ONE YEAR\*\* - 8 Months/40 Weeks/360 Intervals \*\*ONE MONTH\*\* - 5 Weeks/45 Intervals \*\*ONE WEEK\*\* - Nine Intervals \*\*ONE INTERVAL\*\* - Thirty Parts \*\*ONE PART\*\* - Fifty Ticks \*\*ONE TICK\*\* - Ten Breaths \*\*ONE BREATH\*\* (approx six seconds, the amount of time it takes to inhale, exhale, and inhale again comfortably when at rest) ## Intervals of the Week \*\*BELVAL\*\* \\- “Interval of Belthid” \*\*AUVAL\*\* \\- “Interval of Au’Pak” \*\*LOCKVAL\*\* \\- “Interval of Double Lock” \*\*KADVAL\*\* \\- “Interval of Kadmin" \*\*QOVAL\*\* \\- “Interval of Qoseem” \*\*ROHTVAL\*\* \\- “Interval of Roht” \*\*FRIKVAL\*\* \\- “Interval of Frik” \*\*LAYVAL\*\* \\- “Interval of Lay’Ora \*\*GODVAL\*\*\\- “Interval of all gods” ## Months of the Year \*\*BELTHID\*\* - First of Spring \*\*AU’PAK\*\* - Mid Spring \*\*DOUBLE LOCK\*\* - First of summer \*\*KADMIN\*\* \\- Mid Summer \*\*QOSEEM\*\* \\- First of Autumn \*\*ROHT\*\* \\- Mid Autumn \*\*FRIK\*\* - First of Winter \*\*LAY’ORA\*\* - Mid Winter